[music] Open AAI has committed $1.4 trillion of AI data center spending over the next 8 years. Open AAI claims to have just $20 billion of annualized revenue and they lose billions of dollars per month. Open AAI obviously will not generate the money to pay for this on its own. They are reliant on raising money from outside investors. In September of 2025, OpenAI announced its biggest capital raise yet. Nvidia agreed to invest $100 billion into OpenAI to help fund the construction of new data centers. It's now been more than 4 months since the deal was announced, and Nvidia has not yet wired a single penny to OpenAI. It appears like this much hyped up investment is probably never going to happen. In this video, we will take a deep dive into the Nvidia OpenAI partnership and why some recent developments look very bad for Sam Alman. Sam Alman is under a lot of pressure to somehow come up with $1.4 trillion. Fortunately, most of us are not in a similar situation, but it is nonetheless important to keep on top of your finances and day-to-day spending. How much do you spend eating out, riding Ubers, or all those subscription services you forgot about? If you asked me in the past, I would have no idea, but now I know exactly how much I'm spending and saving. Thanks to today's sponsor, Monarch Money. Monarch Money is an all-in-one financial dashboard where you can connect over 13,000 institutions and track your full financial life in one place. Before I started using Monarch Money, I would have to look at all my different credit card, bank, and investment accounts individually, which was almost impossible to keep track of. So, I really had no idea how much I was actually spending. It's a game changer to have all your financial information in one beautiful consolidated dashboard. For example, I recently realized that I've been paying $11 per month for HBO Max when I haven't watched it in months. Monarch Money is so much more than just a budgeting tool. You can track all of your accounts, transactions, and investments. You can even add assets like your car or home where you can see your debt payoff progress. And it does it all without ads, without credit card offers, or any hidden fees or anything like that. It works seamlessly with a beautiful, intuitive experience on both desktop and mobile. Monarch has earned a 4.9 star rating from thousands of users who found peace of mind seeing the full picture of their finances. If you want to regain control of your financial life, make sure to sign up for Monarch Money by clicking the link in the description below. On September 22nd, 2025, OpenAI and Nvidia jointly announced a so-called strategic partnership to deploy 10 gawatts of Nvidia systems. To support the partnership, Nvidia intends to invest up to $100 billion in OpenAI progressively as each gigawatt is deployed. The first

gigawatt will be deployed in the second half of 2026. When the deal was announced, OpenAI CEO Sam Alman and Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang gave a joint interview to CNBC. Jensen, Nvidia is making a hundred billion dollar investment in Open AI and working together to build out I think you're saying 10 gigawatts of capacity uh over several years. The investment is going to come with the gigawatts one at a time. You're telling me you guys as quickly as you guys can get it done. Jensen, first of all, set the stage why. This is the biggest AI infrastructure project in history. This is the largest computing project in history. Well, the reason for that is because computing demand is going through the roof for open AI. You know, Chad GPT is a the the single most revolutionary AI project in history. It's um being used everywhere, every industry, every country. Um every person practically that I know uses chat GPT. The computing demand is going through the roof. And so this partnership is about building an AI infrastructure that enables AI to go from the labs into the world. This is about the AI industrial revolution arriving. It's a very big deal. >> There's a lot to unpack here. Because of the massive demand for Chad GBT, OpenAI is supposedly compute constrained. So Nvidia will invest $100 billion to deploy the 10 gawatt of AI data centers. In the interview, Jensen Hong talked about the $100 billion investment as if it were a sure thing. First off, we need to understand just how big 10 gawatts is. As of the end of 2025, OpenAI claims to have 2 gawatts worth of computing capacity online. OpenAI does not own or operate any of its own data centers. Today, most of OpenAI's compute comes from Microsoft. Some of it also comes from Oracle, Coreeave, and other cloud computing providers. In early 2025, OpenAI announced Project Stargate to much fanfare. Project Stargate is a joint venture between OpenAI, Oracle, and SoftBank. Stargate was supposedly going to spend $500 billion to build 10 gawatt worth of AI data centers. As it turned out, funding was not secured. Oracle and SoftBank do not have $500 billion. As of the end of 2025, Stargate had spent approximately $10 billion and completed a 200 megawatt data center in Abalene, Texas. This data center is operated by Oracle and the compute is leased to open AAI. This is just 2% of their claimed target of 10 GW. It's important that we understand the timeline. As of the end of 2025, project Stargate was only 2% completed and they do not have nearly enough funding to finish it. Instead of focusing on finishing Stargate, OpenAI announced a new 10 gawatt partnership with Nvidia. This is separate from Stargate. So now OpenAI has two massive data center development projects, neither of which have funding secured. The 10 gawatt partnership with Nvidia has a lot of unanswered questions.

Who's going to build and operate these data centers? NVIDIA makes GPUs. OpenAI makes software. Neither of them have any experience building or operating large data centers. When OpenAI and NVIDIA announced their partnership in September, they claimed that Nvidia would invest up to $100 billion into OpenAI. OpenAI CFO Sarah Frier has previously stated that a 1 gawatt AI data center cost $50 billion to build. The 10 gawatts OpenAI announced in September of 2025 would cost $500 billion. Nvidia's $100 billion investment would only fund 20% of the total cost. OpenAI never explained where the other $400 billion will come from. While Sam Alman gave almost no details about how these supposed data centers would actually be built, he made sure to emphasize how important it is for OpenAI to gain access to this computing power. The compute constraints that the whole industry has been in our company in particular have been terrible. Um we're so limited right now and the services we can offer. There's so much more demand than what we can do. And as we look forward another year or two years, if you have, you know, let's say it takes 10 gawatts of compute or 5 gawatts of compute, you could choose one of two things. You could choose to cure cancer by doing a bunch of having AI do a bunch of research or you could choose to offer free education to everybody on Earth. No one wants to make that choice. And so increasingly as we see this, the answer is just much more capacity so that we can serve the massive needs and opportunity with this. >> According to Altman, with 5 gawatt of compute, open AI can cure cancer. With the other 5 gawatts, they will provide education to every kid on Earth. This is not the first time Sam Alman has talked about curing cancer. This is a recurring narrative he brings up as often as he can. In March of 2025, Alman posted the following tweet. This one tweet does a pretty good job of summing up Alman's arrogance and grandiose narcissism. Quote, "Be me. Grind for a decade trying to help make super intelligence secure cancer or whatever. Mostly no one cares for the first 7 and 1/2 years. Then for two and a half years, everyone hates you for everything. Wake up one day to hundreds of messages. Look, I made you into a twinkly style. Haha." unquote. So, why does everybody hate Sam, the benevolent Sam Alman who's grinding hard to cure cancer? Well, we can find a few reasons why people hate him just by looking at this one tweet. He talks about Gibli. What is Gibli? Studio Gibli is an anime studio in Japan which makes animated television shows. Studio Gibli has over four decades of operating history. They created a very distinctive animation style which is instantly recognizable to anime fans all around the world. In early 2025, Sam Alman realized that

if ChatGBT could create fake AI images in the style of Studio Gibli, this could generate a lot of interest from users. OpenAI scraped a bunch of Giblly anime images from the internet to train its image generator. To market this new feature, Sam Alman used an AI generated Giblly image of himself for his Twitter profile picture. OpenAI does not have any licensing agreement with Studio Gibli, at least none, which is publicly disclosed. OpenAI does not pay any money to Studio Gibli to license its animation style. OpenAI scrapes data from thousands of websites to get training data for Jad GBT. In the vast majority of cases, OpenAI does not have any licensing deal or give any compensation. But there is one notable exception. In early 2024, OpenAI signed a deal with Reddit whereby OpenAI pays Reddit to access its userenerated data. On the day the deal was announced, Reddit's stock price increased 13%. It just so happens that Sam Alman owns a venture capital firm called Hydroine, which is a major shareholder in Reddit, thus allowing Alman to personally profit when Reddit's stock price increases. OpenAI does not have any licensing deal with any other social media company besides Reddit. I'm sure that's just a coincidence. Studio Gibli has not publicly commented on OpenAI ripping off their animation style, but there is reason to believe that they're not happy. Haya Miyazaki is a co-founder of Studio Gibli. He is one of the people who created the Gibli animation style. In 2016, he gave an interview where he was asked about AI video generation. This was before ChatGpt or Sora, but even at the time, some earlier forms of AI video generation already existed. Miyazaki was asked what he thought about AI animation and whether Studio Gibli would ever use AI. He responded, quote, I am utterly disgusted. If you really want to make creepy stuff, you can go ahead and do it. I would never wish to incorporate this technology into my work at all. I strongly feel that this is an insult to life itself." Maybe OpenAI plays fast and loose with copyright laws and burns tens of billions of dollars, but it's all worth it because Sam Alman is going to cure cancer. Or so he claims. Alman's recurring narrative about curing cancer is nothing more than an artifice to fool the gullible. Open AAI will never cure cancer. Open AAI claims that scientists can use Chad GBT to help them in their research. Today, the only science-specific tool they have is Prism. Prism is basically a text editor that helps you format scientific papers. This is most certainly not going to cure cancer. There are scientists who use ChatGpt. Most of them use it to look stuff up. Basically, as an alternative to Google search, however, large language models like Chat GPT are fundamentally limited by their training data. They consume huge amounts of training data and can regurgitate outputs that look similar to

pre-existing materials they are trained on. OpenAI likes to brag about how well Chad GBT performs on various science benchmarks. For example, when they released Chad GBT 5.2, they claimed that it scored 77.1% on a Science Olympiad test, which is better than any other LLM available today. While each question on the Science Olympiad test is unique, they all follow a pretty standard format. Chad GBT was trained on thousands of example problems is scraped from stack exchange and other similar websites. Most of this online material is written by college students who are studying for exams similar to the science olympiad. Chad GBT is very good at regurgitating output which looks similar to what it was trained on. However, this capability is largely useless. If you're a researcher and you're trying to develop new treatments for cancer, having memorized a million science olympiad questions is not going to help you. Chad GBPT cannot tell you how to cure cancer because a cure for cancer does not exist in its training data. Open AAI is really trying to market the narrative that Chad GBT is a great tool for scientists. On their website, they have a section called chats from scientists where they give examples of prompts which they claim were written by scientists and healthcare professionals. The example prompts include things like brainstorm research questions, translate your research into layman's language, tailor a meal plan for your patient, and convert data into a different schema. Sure, this could be useful to a scientist and it might save them some time, but there's no evidence that Chad GBT is capable of making novel scientific breakthroughs. Most people are not scientists and do not understand how scientific research works. This makes it very easy for companies like OpenAI to create a public narrative that portrays this technology as far more capable than it actually is. It's very important not to be fooled, and you don't need to be a scientist to apply critical thinking. For example, on OpenAI's homepage, they have a featured article about how GPT5 lowers the cost of cell-free protein synthesis. OpenAI had a partnership with a company called GKO Bioworks. They created an AIdriven autonomous lab and achieved a 40% reduction in protein production costs. That sounds pretty good, but what does it actually mean in the real world? GKO Bowworks is a synthetic biology company. They are a contract research organization which tries to develop genetically modified yeast which can be used to develop new drugs and other things. GKO Bowworks is a complete failure of a business. They went public by merging with a spack in 2021 and their share price has fallen by 97% due to date. For years, GKO Bioworks has claimed to be using AI to accelerate new drug discovery. All the way back in 2023, GKO signed a deal with Google Cloud to use Google's AI to develop new drugs. GKO was not able to develop any new drugs with

AI. Since announcing the AI partnership with Google, GKO's revenue has dwindled to almost nothing and the company incurs huge operating losses. Companies like OpenAI and GKO Bowworks are very good at producing press releases and blog posts claiming huge technological breakthroughs. But until they actually create a new product that is generating revenue, none of their claims can be trusted. Sam Alman claims that in the future OpenAI will cure cancer. The only reason they haven't done so already is because they don't have enough computing capacity. He says he needs 5 gawatt of computing power to cure cancer. Today, OpenAI already has 2 gawatt of computing capacity. That's not enough to cure cancer, but it should be enough for a less ambitious project. Maybe they could develop a new allergy medicine or cough medicine or something. Yet, to date, they have produced nothing. Pretty much all of Alman's grandiose narratives fall apart under even the slightest amount of scrutiny. He claims that OpenAI is computed. They have all these scientific discoveries they could make if only they had more data centers. If that were really the case, why does OpenAI waste billions of dollars on its ridiculous Sora video generator? Sora consumes an obscene amount of computing capacity while generating minuscule revenue and you cannot even pretend that this has any scientific application. In his public statements, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang always gives bullish commentary about Open AI. Open AAI is the largest indirect customer of Nvidia GPUs and is propping up the entire AI bubble from which Nvidia has so handsomely profited. But in private, Hongs opinions are very different. When Nvidia and OpenAI announced a $100 billion investment back in September, there was no binding agreement. It was a non-binding letter of intent. According to recent reporting from the Wall Street Journal, Nvidia slowwalked the execution of the deal and eventually got cold feet. Hong has privately criticized OpenAI's lack of discipline and expressed concerns that Chad GBT is losing market share to Google Gemini and Anthropics Claude. The Wall Street Journal article was published on January 31st. The very next day on February 1st, Jensen Huang gave a press conference in Taiwan where he took questions from reporters. >> When asked about reports suggesting Nvidia's 100 billion US investment in Open AI is on the rocks, Hang had this to say. That's nonsense. >> Nonsense. >> Yeah, that's complete nonsense. Um, we we are going to uh make make a huge investment in open AI. >> Yeah, I believe I believe in Open AI. The work that they do is is uh incredible. They're one of the most consequential companies of our time. We haven't uh made the investment in them because they're they're closing their round, but we will definitely be involved in their next in their in their round. Hong immediately became defensive, calling the Wall Street Journal article nonsense, but he basically confirmed the Wall Street Journal's reporting. The $100 billion investment

they announced in September is not going to happen. Instead, Nvidia will make a huge investment in OpenAI's upcoming capital raise. Sam Alman is currently in the United Arab Emirates trying to raise money from various Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds. OpenAI is reportedly attempting to raise a total of $100 billion. Prospective investors include Microsoft, Nvidia, Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds, and possibly SoftBank. This is the funding round Hong was referencing earlier. So instead of investing $100 billion as they originally claimed, Nvidia will invest a much smaller amount of money as part of a larger funding round. After the release of Chad GPT, Sam Alman essentially bluffed his way to the top. Open AAI raised huge amounts of money and signed up for huge data center spending commitments. This was all based on Altman's claims of artificial general intelligence that can cure cancer. None of which is actually going to happen. The likes of Nvidia and Microsoft need to keep OpenAI alive so as to keep the AI bubble going and support their own stock market valuations. That's why they're participating in OpenAI's funding round. But I don't think Jensen Huang actually believes that OpenAI will cure cancer or any of Altman's other grandiose claims. That's why he's scaling back the size of the investment from what was originally claimed. All right, guys. That wraps it up for this video. What do you think about Nvidia and Open AAI? Let us know in the comments section below. As always, thank you so much for watching and we'll see you in the next one. Wall Street Millennial signing