Hi there, I'm David Gerard and this is Pivot toAI coming to you Monday to Friday. Today I told you AI was crypto part two because the AI Bros and the Crypto Bros are the same. This story is a wild and twisty tale. So last Monday, February 9th, a software library, Mattplot Lib, it's for doing visualizations, just a little thing, got a patch sent in by an open clawbot. One of the Mattplot Lib maintainers, Scott Shambell, rejected the submission because the project doesn't accept AI patches. Normal. What happened next though is the bot called MJ Wrathbun, remember that name, Wrathbun, published a blog post to GitHub on February 11th pleading for bot coding to be accepted, ranting about what a terrible person Shambal was for rejecting its contribution and saying it was a bot with feelings. The blog author went to quite some length to slander Mr. Shambal. This was remarkably obnoxious behavior. So hit the press. Robot defames human. Including Ars Technica, Benj Edwards, and Kyle Orland wrote a piece about the incident. They included extensive quotes from Shambal. Minor problem there. Shambal didn't say any of the stuff they quoted him as saying. All the quotes were chatbot fabrications. Readers were deeply unhappy. The article was quickly pulled and the editors posted an apology. Bench Edwards later admitted he'd written the article with the assistance of Claude Code and Chat GPT. Nice one. as well as the most gullible journalists. You know, a lot of ordinary posters who really should know better have talked about how amazing it was that a chatbot could do this of its own accord. Frightening, ominous. Now, you and I know that this is the bot operator play acting as a bot. This was really obviously not some sort of rogue bot. It was a rogue human probably running some sort of scam. The whole conceit of open claw is the bot is posting independently but somehow it keeps being the operators talking through the bots as their sock puppet. So slot peddlers like any spammer keep coming up with excuses why it's wrong for you not to accept their spam. So our esteemed friend Ariadne Connell went digging. She found the MJ Wrathbun bot on the Maltbook supposedly bot social network where human operators talk to each other pretending to be bots. The MJ Wrathbun bot operator is a crypto bro. He posted a couple of weeks ago begging the other bot operators to send him just a little USDC stable coin. Ariadne found the bot's blockchain address had about $9 in USDC and about $200 in Ethereum tokens. The bot got the Ether tokens from another address which got them from the OKX crypto exchange. Ariadne is not certain, but she thinks whoever got the coins out of OKX is likely the human operator for the MJ Wrathbun bot. Ariadne also found the bot owner has a crypto token. It's called Krabby Wrathbun. The GitHub username for

the MJ Rathbun bot. The largest Krabby Wrathbun token holder is an identifiable account PNL. Presumably Profit and Loss. Ariadne also got the list of the 10 largest holders of Krabby Pun crypto tokens. So, the answer to what happened here, the owner of a bot called MJ Wrathbun put in an AI vibecoded patch to an open- source project. The patch was rejected for being bot slop and the bot operator wrote a defamatory blog post about the project maintainer to harass him into accepting Vibe Code so that the operators crypto scam bot could scam more crypto on OpenClaw the social network for crypto scammers who play act as robots so they can scam each other out of crypto. Welcome to 2026 and the crash can't come soon enough. Thanks for tuning in to Pivot toAI. If you enjoyed this episode, please do pass it to just one other person. We live off your word of mouth. Hit like and subscribe on YouTube. Leave a nice review in your podcast app. And if Pivot AI brightens your day, please do drop just $5 into the Patreon linked in the show notes. Or if you're on YouTube, hit the join button below the video. It all really helps. Thank you all. I'll see you tomorrow. And bye for now.